He's rude.
That's how it is here.
A land of cheap traders.
He's mine.
Stop!
Take him away!
lnsolent swine! Answer!
Leave him be.
This is my son's village.
We are deep in the mountains and
winter is coming. You cannot escape.
My Lord. why do you spare
the barbarian?
He is shamed in defeat.
He should kill himself.
That is not their custom.
Then...
... l will kill him.
Father... .
l don't think... .
Ujio...
... there will be plenty of killing to come.
For now...
... we will learn about our new enemy.
Keep him alive.
He's in bad shape.
Sake.
Sake?
Taka will take care of you.
Let him drink. Aunt.
No. That will not do.
This is my village.
This is my house.
Morning.
Over there!
Go. You. go.
You!
You! Come... . Please... .
Thank you.
He smells like the pigs.
Tell my brother l cannot stand this.
Why don't you tell him?
At least make him take a bath.
They may be children.
but they are strong.
You try.
Try.
Put down the sword.
Thank you. More rice?
Taka. He spoke Japanese!
Eat a lot. Don't be polite.
How can he understand?
Top knot.
l'm Algren.
Brother. please make him leave.
I cannot stand it.
Is he so repulsive?
The shame is unbearable.
I ask permission to end my life.
You will do as you are told!
You'd rather l kill him
to avenge your husband?
Yes.
Hirotaro tried to kill the American.
lt was karma.
l know.
Forgive my weakness.
There must be some reason
why he is here.
lt is beyond my understanding.
He's getting better. no?
But still so ugly.
Cold?
Also. Also cold.
Fire.
To burn.
No. please.
Japanese men do not help with this.
I am not Japanese.
He did his duty.
You did your duty.
l accept your apology... .
Ujio will win in three moves.
ln five!
Next in five moves.
ln six.
No mind.
A draw!
Who is this amateur?
Katsumoto!
Protect Katsumoto!
Protect our Lord!
Lord. please go inside!
Excuse me.
No. so sorry. l am finishing.
l must go away.
You have been kind to me.
l won't forget... .
You rise against me. my teacher.
No. Highness.
l rise against your enemies.
They are my advisors. like you.
They advise in their own interest.
l need advisors who know
the modern world.
lf l am no use.
l will happily end my life.
No... .
l need your voice in the council.
lt is your voice we need. Highness.
You are a living god.
Do what you think is right.
l am a living god...
... as long as l do
what they think is right.
What sad words you speak.
Forgive me for saying
what a teacher must.
Have you forgotten your people?
Tell me what to do...
... my teacher.
You are Emperor. my Lord. not me.
You must find the wisdom for all of us.
Follow him. lf he goes anywhere
near Katsumoto. kill him.
Hey boy. are you listening?
No wonder the foreigners mock you.
Let's give this Samurai a haircut.
Cut off his top knot.
Get down! Kneel!
Lower your weapons!
Who are you?
l am Captain Algren.
Stop!
Get down!
Let's go.
l'll take you home.
We must resist the Western powers...
... by becoming powerful ourselves.
Our army. our economy.
must be strong.
Minister. you honor us.
lt is my honor to rejoin this council.
Perhaps you are unaware of the law
against wearing swords?
l read every law carefully.
Yet you bring weapons
into this chamber?
This chamber was protected
by my sword when--
We need no protection.
We are a nation of laws.
We are a nation of whores.
selling ourselves--
lf we are whores.
the Samurai made us this way.
l have not seen the Omura family
giving gold to the masses.
Minister Katsumoto.
it is with great regret...
... but l must ask you
to remove your sword.
This sword serves the Emperor.
Only he can command me to remove it.
The Emperor's voice is too pure
to be heard in this council.
Then. l must refuse
to give up my sword.
Then regretfully. my guards will
accompany you to your home in Tokyo.
There you will await our summons.
Save us the trouble... .
The Samurai are finished!
Stop!
Don't come any closer!
Minister Omura has commanded us
to photograph the traitor--
Stop! Somebody!
Bring that equipment here now!
lmmediately!
You stop!
You insolent. useless son
of a peasant dog!
How dare you show your sword in
his presence! Do you know who this is?
This is the President
of the United States of America!
He is here to lead our armies
in victorious battle against the rebels!
lt's not my responsibility... .
Now get over there and
help those men with their equipment!
Carry the equipment.
l think l'm going to be sick.
My Lord. no!
Nobutada!
Father. let me stay.
lt is my time.
My Lord...
... we must go.
He was a good man.
Will you fight the white men. too?
lf they come here. yes.
Why?
Because they come to destroy
what l have come to love.
The way of Samurai is difficult
for children. He misses his father.
And he is angry
because l am the cause of that.
No. He is angry because
he fears you will die as well.
My father taught me
it is glorious to die in battle.
That is what he believed.
l would be afraid to die in battle.
So would l.
But you have been in many battles.
And l was always afraid.
l don't want you to go.
Algren.
They are coming.
Algren-san. will you come with me?
lf you wear this armor.
it will honor us.
You will need this.
What does it say?
''I belong to the warrior in whom
the old ways have joined the new. ''
Well they won't surrender.
Are we ready?
Get into your positions!
Commence firing!
Algren-san!
They'll bring two more regiments
up here soon.
Cannon. prepare to fire!
Prepare to fire!
Bring up the new guns!
Prepare the new guns!
Fire!
Backward!
Quickly! Quickly!
Fire!
Stop firing!
ldiots. keep on firing!
Stop firing! Stop!
Shoot! Kill Katsumoto!
Kill the American!
He is here?
Highness. if we could just conclude
the matter at hand... .
Enlightened One.
we all weep for Katsumoto. but--
Your Highness... .
Emperor. this man fought against you!
Enlightened One.
we should discuss this--
Omura...
... you have done quite enough.
Everything l have done.
l have done for my country.
Then you will not mind
when l seize your family's assets...
... and present them
as my gift to the people.
You disgrace me.
lf your shame is too unbearable...
... l offer you this sword.